Real world cms guide (#544)
shopware/docs: guides/plugins/plugins/content/cms/real-world-cms/add-real-world-cms-element.md

```javascript
import './component';
import './config';
import './preview';

Shopware.Service('cmsService').registerCmsElement({
    name: 'cms-button',
    label: 'sw-cms.blocks.text.ninja-cms-button.label',
    component: 'sw-cms-el-cms-button',
    configComponent: 'sw-cms-el-config-cms-button',
    previewComponent: 'sw-cms-el-preview-cms-button',
    defaultConfig: {
        title: {
            source: 'static',
            value: 'ButtonText'
        },
        textColor: {
            source: 'static',
            value: '#fff'
        },
        url: {
            source: 'static',
            value: ''
        },
        newTab: {
            source: 'static',
            value: 'true'
        },
        buttonAlign: {
            source: 'static',
            value: 'center'
        },
        buttonColor: {
            source: 'static',
            value: '#4492ed'
        },
        buttonWidth: {
            source: 'static',
            value: ''
        },
        buttonHeight: {
            source: 'static',
            value: ''
        }
    },

});
```
{% endcode %}

> Of course you could add a bit more configuration but we want to keep it simple in this guide. Now we also need to create the component, preview and the config. Let's start by doing the component.

Reviewer: 8 configurations for a simple button is already a lot. But this is more real life like 👍

Author: You actually could add a lot more like: border-radius, border-color, hover-color and so on but I guess 8 config fields is enough for a guide to understand how it works

});
```
{% endcode %}

We registered the preview now we only have to do the template and some styles. So we create a new file `sw-cms-el-preview-cms-button.html.twig`.

{% code title="<plugin root>/src/Resources/app/administration/src/module/sw-cms/elements/cms-button/preview/sw-cms-el-preview-cms-button.html.twig" %}
{% raw %}
```markup
{% block sw_cms_element_ninja_button_preview %}
	<div class="ninja-button-preview">
		<button class="ninja-btn">Button</button>
	</div>
{% endblock %}

```
{% endraw %}
{% endcode %}

We only display a simple button right here. Let's add some styles so people can actually take a look at it:

{% code title="<plugin root>/src/Resources/app/administration/src/module/sw-cms/elements/cms-button/preview/sw-cms-el-preview-cms-button.scss" %}
```css
.ninja-button-preview {
    display: flex;
    justify-content: center;
    align-items: center;
    height: 100%;

    .ninja-btn {
        background-color: #4492ed;
        border: none;
        color: #fff;
        padding: 14px 50px;
        text-align: center;
        text-decoration: none;
        display: inline-block;
        font-size: 16px;
        margin: 30px 0;
    }
}
```
{% endcode %}

> 

Reviewer: Now I created a preview element but I don't know where I will see this. Is this part of the required knowledge?

Author: If you followed the real-world cms block guide you should see a text element if you drag & drop it in the shopping experiences. So maybe I should add a little sentence like here as well where you can see that element?

But I guess it's clear if you followed the first guide. What are your thoughts?

Reviewer: There are in sum like 5 elements I am building. And when no one is telling me why we need a preview I could think it is the preview in the editor. But it is just the preview in the selection screen. Might be confusing. I just don't like the naming shopware used here in the beginning to I think it should always be mentioned where you can see your recent changes so you can follow along.

Author: Let me add a short explanation here as well. In first place I just wanted to add images so it's 100% clear but I think images are not possible right?

{% code title="<plugin root>/src/Resources/app/administration/src/module/sw-cms/elements/cms-button/config/index.js" %}
```javascript
import template from './sw-cms-el-config-cms-button.html.twig';

const { Component, Mixin } = Shopware;

Component.register('sw-cms-el-config-cms-button', {
    template,

    inject: ['repositoryFactory'],

    mixins: [
        Mixin.getByName('cms-element')
    ],

    created() {
        this.createdComponent();
    },

    methods: {
        createdComponent() {
            this.initElementConfig('cms-button');
        },

        onElementUpdate(element) {
            this.$emit('element-update', element);
        },
        onInputText(title) {
            this.emitChanges(title);
        }
    }

});
```
{% endcode %}

Let's create the twig file as well real quick so we have the option to actually configure the button:

{% code title="<plugin root>/src/Resources/app/administration/src/module/sw-cms/elements/cms-button/config/sw-cms-el-config-cms-button.html.twig" %}
{% raw %}
```markup
{% block sw_cms_el_ninja_cms_button %}

> 	<sw-tabs class="sw-cms-el-config-ninja-cms-button__tabs" defaultItem="content">

Reviewer: Mixed indention

Reviewer: Indentation... :D sorry

Author: That's my bad I did disable my linter/formatting tool. Running a tool above the files probably should fix the issue I guess?

```
{% endraw %}
{% endcode %}

Now we want to react to the configuration we gave the element in the backend so we need to create a new file `cms-element-cms-button.html.twig`

{% code title="<plugin root>/src/Resources/views/storefront/element/cms-element-cms-button.html.twig" %}
{% raw %}
```text
{% block element_text %}
	{%  set config = element.fieldConfig.elements %}

	<div class="cms-element-{{ element.type }} ninja-cms-button-flex ninja-cms-button-flex{% if config.buttonAlign.value == "center" %}-center{% elseif config.buttonAlign.value == "flex-end" %}-end{% else %}-start{% endif %}">
		{% block element_text_button %}
			<a href="{{config.url.value}}" {% if config.newTab.value %} target="_blank" {% endif %}>
				<button class="ninja-cms-btn" style="color: {{ config.textColor.value }}; background-color: {{ config.buttonColor.value }}; {% if config.buttonWidth.value != 0 %}width: {{config.buttonWidth.value}}px;{% else %}width: auto{% endif %}">
                    {{ config.title.value }}
                </button>
			</a>
		{% endblock %}
	</div>
{% endblock %}
```
{% endraw %}
{% endcode %}

And that's it! Now we created our very first own real world CMS-Element.

> You also can see the code for this guide here [shopware-real-world-cms-block](https://github.com/NinjaArmy/shopware-real-world-cms/tree/02-add-real-world-cms-element) 

Reviewer: This should be imported into the shopware organization.

# Add a real world CMS element

## Overview

> This guide is based on the [Add a real world CMS block](add-real-world-cms-block.md) guide. We will create a real world CMS element in this guide.
> That means we are creating an element with a config which fits to our CMS-Button block.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This guide is based on the [Add a real-world CMS block](add-real-world-cms-block.md) guide. We will create a real-world CMS element in this guide.
That means we are creating an element with a config that fits our CMS-Button block.
```

## Prerequisites

We assume that you know the basics for about creating a CMS element from [Creating a custom CMS element](../add-cms-element.md). So if you don't understand
something please make sure to take a look at that guide as well.

## Creating your custom CMS element

> Imagine you want to create a new element to display a button which is fully configurable by the shop manager. We already build a CMS-Block for the button in the
> last guide but if you just have a block you don't have a configuration that's why you need a CMS element

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Imagine you want to create a new element to display a fully configurable button by the shop manager. We have already built a CMS-Block for the button in the
last guide, but if you just have a block, you don't have a configuration. That's why you need a CMS element
```

## Administration Code

> Since you already know the basics from [Add CMS Element](../add-cms-element.md), we will just look a quick look at the code.
> If you followed the real world block guide you already should have a `main.js` in the `<plugin root>/src/Resources/app/administration/src` directory.
> In this file we need to import our new element's directory. So let's do it:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We will look at the code briefly since you already know the basics from [Add CMS Element](../add-cms-element.md).
If you followed the real-world block guide, you already should have a `main.js` in the `<plugin root>/src/Resources/app/administration/src` directory.
In this file, we need to import our new element's directory. So let's do it:
```

{% code title="<plugin root>/src/Resources/app/administration/src/main.js" %}

```javascript
/* Import the block directory */
import './module/sw-cms/blocks/text/cms-button';

/* Import the elements directory */
import './module/sw-cms/elements/cms-button';
```

{% endcode %}

> Of course we need to create the directory which we just imported now. So let's do that and place an `index.js` in your `<plugin root>/src/Resources/app/administration/src/module/sw-cms/elements/cms-button/index.js`. We need to register our element here and we will do it like this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Of course, we need to create the directory we just imported now. So let's do that and place an `index.js` in your `<plugin root>/src/Resources/app/administration/src/module/sw-cms/elements/cms-button/index.js`. We need to register our element here, and we will do it like this:
```

```javascript
import './component';
import './config';
import './preview';

Shopware.Service('cmsService').registerCmsElement({
    name: 'cms-button',
    label: 'sw-cms.blocks.text.ninja-cms-button.label',
    component: 'sw-cms-el-cms-button',
    configComponent: 'sw-cms-el-config-cms-button',
    previewComponent: 'sw-cms-el-preview-cms-button',
    defaultConfig: {
        title: {
            source: 'static',
            value: 'ButtonText',
        },
        textColor: {
            source: 'static',
            value: '#fff',
        },
        url: {
            source: 'static',
            value: '',
        },
        newTab: {
            source: 'static',
            value: 'true',
        },
        buttonAlign: {
            source: 'static',
            value: 'center',
        },
        buttonColor: {
            source: 'static',
            value: '#4492ed',
        },
        buttonWidth: {
            source: 'static',
            value: '',
        },
        buttonHeight: {
            source: 'static',
            value: '',
        },
    },
});
```

{% endcode %}

> Of course you could add a bit more configuration but we want to keep everything good to understand in this guide. Now we also need to create the component, preview and the config. Let's start by doing the component.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Of course, you could add a bit more configuration, but we want to keep everything good to understand in this guide. Now we also need to create the component, preview, and the config. Let's start with the component.
```

            ) {
                styles.color = `${this.element.config.textColor.value}`;
                styles.backgroundColor = `${this.element.config.buttonColor.value}`;
            }
            if (this.element.config.buttonWidth.value) {
                styles.width = `${this.element.config.buttonWidth.value}px`;
            } else {
                styles.width = "auto";
            }

            if (this.element.config.buttonHeight.value) {
                styles.height = `${this.element.config.buttonHeight.value}px`;
            } else {
                styles.height = "auto";
            }

            return styles;
        },
        buttonAlignStyle() {
            const styles = {};
            if (this.element.config.buttonAlign.value) {
                styles.justifyContent = `${this.element.config.buttonAlign.value}`;
            }

            return styles;
        },
    },

    methods: {
        createdComponent() {
            this.initElementConfig('cms-button');
            this.initElementData('cms-button');
        },

        onInputText(text) {
            this.emitChanges(text);
        },
    },
});
```

{% endcode %}

> We add computed properties which will handle the styling in that file as you can see. If you don't know how computed properties work take a look at [computed property](https://vuejs.org/v2/guide/computed.html)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As you can see, we add computed properties that will handle the styling in that file. If you don't know how computed properties work take a look at [computed property](https://vuejs.org/v2/guide/computed.html)
```

The twig file for your element:

{% code title="<plugin root>/src/Resources/app/administration/src/module/sw-cms/elements/cms-button/component/sw-cms-el-cms-button.html.twig" %}
{% raw %}

```markup
{% block sw_cms_element_ninja_cms_button %}
	<div class="sw-cms-el-ninja-cms-button" v-model="element.config.buttonAlign.value" :style="buttonAlignStyle">
		<a href="{{element.config.url.value}}" target="_blank" v-model="element.config.title.value" @input="onInputText">
			<button class="sw-el-ninja-btn" :style="buttonStyles">{{element.config.title.value}}</button>
		</a>
	</div>
{% endblock %}
```

{% endraw %}
{% endcode %}

> And of course you also have a .scss file for your element in the component folder:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
And of course, you also have a .scss file for your element in the component folder:
```

{% code title="<plugin root>/src/Resources/app/administration/src/module/sw-cms/elements/cms-button/component/sw-cms-el-cms-button.scss" %}

```css
.sw-cms-el-ninja-cms-button {
    display: flex;
    width: 100%;

    button {
        outline: none;
    }
}

.sw-el-ninja-btn {
    padding: 1rem;
}

.sw-el-ninja-btn:focus {
    outline: none;
}
```

{% endcode %}

Let's move on with the preview component.

### Element preview component

> The preview directory is not much different, we also have 3 files here. Let's start with the `index.js` again:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The preview directory is not much different. We also have 3 files here. Let's start with the `index.js` again:
```

{% code title="<plugin root>/src/Resources/app/administration/src/module/sw-cms/elements/cms-button/preview/index.js" %}

```javascript
import template from './sw-cms-el-preview-cms-button.html.twig';
import './sw-cms-el-preview-cms-button.scss';

const { Component } = Shopware;

Component.register('sw-cms-el-preview-cms-button', {
    template,
});
```

{% endcode %}

> We registered the preview now we only have to do the template and some styles. So we create a new file `sw-cms-el-preview-cms-button.html.twig`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We registered the preview. Now we only have to do the template and some styles. So we create a new file, `sw-cms-el-preview-cms-button.html.twig`.
```

{% code title="<plugin root>/src/Resources/app/administration/src/module/sw-cms/elements/cms-button/preview/sw-cms-el-preview-cms-button.html.twig" %}
{% raw %}

```markup
{% block sw_cms_element_ninja_button_preview %}
	<div class="ninja-button-preview">
		<button class="ninja-btn">Button</button>
	</div>
{% endblock %}

```

{% endraw %}
{% endcode %}

> We only display a simple button right here. Let's add some styles so people can actually take a look at it:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We only display a simple button right here. Let's add some styles so people can take a look at it:
```

{% code title="<plugin root>/src/Resources/app/administration/src/module/sw-cms/elements/cms-button/preview/sw-cms-el-preview-cms-button.scss" %}

```css
.ninja-button-preview {
    display: flex;
    justify-content: center;
    align-items: center;
    height: 100%;

    .ninja-btn {
        background-color: #4492ed;
        border: none;
        color: #fff;
        padding: 14px 50px;
        text-align: center;
        text-decoration: none;
        display: inline-block;
        font-size: 16px;
        margin: 30px 0;
    }
}
```

{% endcode %}

> The preview for the element is visible when you just drag and drop in an element and hit the exchange button. A modal will open up and will show you some elements and this is where you element preview should be visible now as well.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The preview for the element is visible when you just drag and drop in an element and hit the exchange button. A modal will open up and show you some elements, and this is where your element preview should be visible now.
```

### Element config component

> The last thing you need for the CMS element in the administration is the config. And it's about the same here as well. We create a `config` directory and place 3 different files in here. Let's start with the `index.js`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The last thing you need for the CMS element in the administration is the config. And it's about the same here as well. We create a `config` directory and place 3 different files here. Let's start with the `index.js`
```

{% code title="<plugin root>/src/Resources/app/administration/src/module/sw-cms/elements/cms-button/config/index.js" %}

```javascript
import template from './sw-cms-el-config-cms-button.html.twig';

const { Component, Mixin } = Shopware;

Component.register('sw-cms-el-config-cms-button', {
    template,

    inject: ['repositoryFactory'],

    mixins: [Mixin.getByName('cms-element')],

    created() {
        this.createdComponent();
    },

    methods: {
        createdComponent() {
            this.initElementConfig('cms-button');
        },

        onElementUpdate(element) {
            this.$emit('element-update', element);
        },
        onInputText(title) {
            this.emitChanges(title);
        },
    },
});
```

{% endcode %}

> Let's create the twig file as well real quick so we have the option to actually configure the button:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's create the twig file as well real quick, so we have the option to configure the button:
```

						<sw-field v-model="element.config.buttonWidth.value"
                                      type="number"
                                      :label="$tc('sw-cms.elements.ninja-cms-button.config.label.width')"
                                      :placeholder="$tc('sw-cms.elements.ninja-cms-button.config.placeholder.width')">
                                <template #suffix>px</template>
                        </sw-field>
						<sw-field v-model="element.config.buttonHeight.value"
                                      type="number"
                                      :label="$tc('sw-cms.elements.ninja-cms-button.config.label.height')"
                                      :placeholder="$tc('sw-cms.elements.ninja-cms-button.config.placeholder.height')">
                                <template #suffix>px</template>
                        </sw-field>

					{% endblock %}
				</sw-container>
			{% endblock %}
		</template>
	</sw-tabs>
{% endblock %}

```

{% endraw %}
{% endcode %}

> Now we are pretty much done. We also could add a .scss file if we need to style the configuration but in this case it's not necessary. So we skip that. Before we see anything changing in the administration we still need to change one little line of code from our [Add a real world CMS block](add-real-world-cms-block.md) guide. Our code should like this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now we are pretty much done. We could also add a .scss file if we need to style the configuration, but it's not necessary in this case. So we skip that. Before we see anything changing in the administration, we still need to change one little line of code from our [Add a real-world CMS block](add-real-world-cms-block.md) guide. Our code should be like this:
```

{% code title="<plugin root>/src/Resources/app/administration/src/module/sw-cms/blocks/text/cms-button/index.js" %}

```javascript
import './component';
import './preview';

Shopware.Service('cmsService').registerCmsBlock({
    name: 'cms-button',
    label: 'sw-cms.blocks.text.ninja-cms-button.label',
    category: 'text',
    component: 'sw-cms-block-button',
    previewComponent: 'sw-cms-preview-button',
    defaultConfig: {
        marginBottom: '20px',
        marginTop: '20px',
        marginLeft: '20px',
        marginRight: '20px',
        sizingMode: 'boxed',
    },
    /* Changed this line of code */
    slots: {
        button: 'cms-button',
    },
});
```

{% endcode %}

#### Build the administration

> Your element in the administration is almost ready. The only thing you need to do now is to build the administration again!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Your element in the administration is almost ready. The only thing you need to do now is building the administration again!
```

{% tabs %}

> {% tab title="Development template" %}

Reviewer 2: The same as above : `composer run build:js:admin`

```bash
./psh.phar administration:build
```

{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Production template" %}

```bash
./bin/build-administration.sh
```

{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

### The storefront view

> First let"s adjust the code for our block from our last guide.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First, let's adjust the code for our block from our last guide.
```

{% code title="<plugin root>/src/Resources/views/storefront/block/cms-block-cms-button.html.twig" %}
{% raw %}

```text
{% block block_cms_button_block %}
	{% set element = block.slots.getSlot('button') %}
	{% set columns = 1 %}

	<div class="col-12" data-cms-element-id="{{ element.id }}">
		{% block block_text_inner %}
			{% sw_include "@Storefront/storefront/element/cms-element-" ~ element.type ~ ".html.twig" ignore missing %}
		{% endblock %}
	</div>
{% endblock %}
```

{% endraw %}
{% endcode %}

> Now we want to react to the configuration we gave the element in the backend so we need to create a new file `cms-element-cms-button.html.twig`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now we want to react to the configuration we gave the element in the backend, so we need to create a new file `cms-element-cms-button.html.twig`
```

{% code title="<plugin root>/src/Resources/views/storefront/element/cms-element-cms-button.html.twig" %}
{% raw %}

```text
{% block element_text %}
	{%  set config = element.fieldConfig.elements %}

	<div class="cms-element-{{ element.type }} ninja-cms-button-flex ninja-cms-button-flex{% if config.buttonAlign.value == "center" %}-center{% elseif config.buttonAlign.value == "flex-end" %}-end{% else %}-start{% endif %}">
		{% block element_text_button %}
			<a href="{{config.url.value}}" {% if config.newTab.value %} target="_blank" {% endif %}>
				<button class="ninja-cms-btn" style="color: {{ config.textColor.value }}; background-color: {{ config.buttonColor.value }}; {% if config.buttonWidth.value != 0 %}width: {{config.buttonWidth.value}}px;{% else %}width: auto{% endif %}">
                    {{ config.title.value }}
                </button>
			</a>
		{% endblock %}
	</div>
{% endblock %}
```

{% endraw %}
{% endcode %}

> And that's it! Now we created our very first own real world CMS-Element.
> You also can see the code for this guide here [shopware-real-world-cms-block](https://github.com/NinjaArmy/shopware-real-world-cms/tree/02-add-real-world-CMS element)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
And that's it! Now we created our very first own real-world CMS Element.
You also can see the code for this guide here [shopware-real-world-cms-block](https://github.com/NinjaArmy/shopware-real-world-cms/tree/02-add-real-world-CMS element)
```
